new areas/stories
eterna clearing that leads to the amber castle from the anime with a static vespiquen, cheryl as a battle partner or just follows you around
old chateau has an area that will be blocked off until later in the game when gardenia calls you and asks for help to clear it as shes heard rumor of a pokemon in there
celestic ruins to the north of the town, maybe youll need rock climb or waterfall for it.
underground will operate similarly to platinum, but will have a different map, and encounter areas similar to bdsp
battle resort will function similar to sevii islands, accessible after the galactic storyline from snowpoint. will be the source of alolan pokemon
battle frontier facilities will be pwt from b2w2, battle factory, standard battle tower, 
hot spring resort either by snowpoint or maybe by celestic up on the mountainside
after you beat maylene you will get a call from rowan to go back to eterna forest with dawn/lucas to check out the amber castle. you might meet cheryl there

mechanics:
following pokemon maybe
rock climb
sideways waterfalls maybe
sideways sliding ice for the snowpoint gym

day/night cycle:
4 time blocks, morning, day,evening,and night.
time will pass after:
1 battling a trainer. time will only pass once for every time you enter a building and fight a trainer; eg, clearing a galactic hideout in one go will only pass from morning to day.
2 healing, either at a center or otherwise. if you heal at your house or at the valor lakefront hotel it will pass time just like if you heal at a center.
3 certain story events, such as 
4 you will be able to "wait" for a certain time at pokemon centers and beds that you can heal at.

"week" cycle
7 day rotation for certain events. 
some things will only happen on certain days.
maybe routes will have a weather rotation based on day?
1 friday drifloon at the windworks
2 mom will be at hearthome on the weekends, after talking to her at the contest hall. she will leave a note on the counter. you will still be able to heal in your bed.
3 roark will be in different places in the underground based on the day, and will give you a different evo stone based on location.
4 gardenia will be in different routes throughout sinnoh based on the day, after you beat her. 1:eterna forest.2:floaroma meadow.3:212.4:210.5:215.6:214.7:224 she will battle you with a small team of local grass types and give you berries if you win
5 fantina will enter different contests based on the day (maybe)
6 maylene will be in snowpoint on certain days, and at the celestic hot springs on others. she will battle you and give you a tm at each place 
7 wake will be at different water routes based on the day 1:220.2:218.3:213.4:212.5:lake acuity.6:223.7:mt coronet b1f?
8 byron will be at the house on iron island on day 1, mt coronet on day 3, underground on day 5(same area as roark)
9 candice will be in the upper areas of mt coronet on days 1 and 2. she will be at the celestic hot springs on days 4 and 5
10 volkner will be at the windworks on day 1, the lighthouse on day 3, and the pokemon league lobby on day 5